


.. index::
   pair: Installer; coApp



.. _coApp:

=========
coApp
=========


.. seealso::

   - http://coapp.org/index.html


People
======

Garrett Serack
--------------

.. seealso:: http://fosdem.org/2012/schedule/speaker/garrett_serack

Garrett Serack worked as an independent software development consultant in
Calgary, Canada, for 15 years, with clients in fields such as government,
telecom, petroleum, and railways.

Joining Microsoft in the fall of 2005 as the Community Program Manager of the
Federated Identity team, Garrett has worked with the companies and the
Open Source community to build digital identity frameworks, tools, and
standards that are shaping the future of Internet commerce and strengthening
the fight against fraud.


In the summer of 2007, he transitioned to Open Source Technology Center at
Microsoft where he now works as a Senior Open Source Software Development
Engineer working closely with Open Source communities to improve the quality
and performance of their software on the Windows Platform.


Garrett currently spends most of his time working on CoApp--an open source
Package Management system for Windows, and has started a number of Open Source
projects along with working as a committer on several other projects.



Conferences
===========

.. seealso:: http://fosdem.org/2012/schedule/event/coapp


CoApp: Packaging Open Source software for Windows

Open Source Software has long enjoyed the ability to be trivially acquired,
installed and maintained on Linux via packages, where each package contains
within it all the information required to find and configure the necessary
dependencies.

However, in many situations there is a strong need to install OSS on Windows,
where traditional package management systems like RPM and DPKG are not only
unavailable--but couldn't support the platform in a manner consistent with
the other software.

This presentation looks into the technical details of CoApp, a new fully-open
source package management system fills this gap by providing all the tools to
easily create, publish, discover, and install software packages, including
automatically handling dependencies, managing updates and providing a
frictionless end-user experience, all in a method that is well supported by
the platform.





