

.. index::
   pair: Visual Studio; 2013  (17 octobre 2013)
   
   

.. _visual_studio_2013:

==================================================
Visual studio 2013 ( 17 octobre 2013)
==================================================

.. seealso::

   - http://www.microsoft.com/visualstudio/eng/2013-preview
   - http://www.microsoft.com/express/Windows/


.. contents::
   :depth: 3

Description
=============


La version finale de ``Visual Studio 2013`` est accessible au téléchargement 
depuis le 17 octobre 2013.

Le numéro de version interne de Visual Studio 2013 est ``12.0`` 
(le symbole _MSC_VER étant défini comme 1800).



Introduction
=============

There has been a fundamental shift to device and services experiences altering 
how the industry approaches software development. 

Consumers, customers, and employees now demand a new breed of applications. 

They demand applications that provide the best experience across multiple 
screens and devices, always-connected services for data they need, security, 
and continuous evolution.

Visual Studio 2013 Preview builds on the advances delivered in 
Visual Studio 2012 and subsequent Visual Studio Updates to provide the solution 
needed for development teams to embrace this transformation and to develop and 
deliver new modern applications that leverage the next wave in Windows platform 
innovation (Windows 8.1), while supporting devices and services across all 
Microsoft platforms.

Below are just some of the highlights in this release, including: innovative 
features for greater developer productivity, support for Windows 8.1 app 
development, web development advances, debugging and optimization improvements 
for native and managed code, and expanded ALM capabilities. 


Visual Studio 2013 Preview includes a number of improvements to help you be 
more productive and stay focused when coding. 

Some features first appeared as experiments in the Visual Studio Power Tools 
extension before being refined and incorporated into Visual Studio. 

Productivity features such as automatic bracket completion, the ability to move 
code lines or blocks using keyboard shortcuts, and in-line navigation are now 
built-in. 

In addition, Visual Studio 2013 Preview includes a new Team Explorer with an 
enhanced Home page that provides easier navigation to team collaboration 
features, including the ability to undock Pending Changes and Builds into a 
separate window. 





